# Mike's Work Out Tracker
#### Video Demo:  <URL HERE>
#### Description:

#### Overview:
This project gathers data from users about their workout routines. The user could also chose to load workout data from
a comma separated value file. Then it can display the data to the terminal and plot a chart that shows a user’s exercise
progress over time.  Also, it includes an option to update the data and save it as a file.

#### Files:
project.py - includes all the python code to run the program
test_project.py – pytest functions to ensure the functions are working correctly
sample_file.csv – needed to run the pytest functions
README.md – description of project - this file!
requirements.txt – pip installed python packages required

#### Use:
After running project.py a command line interface opens. There are seven options in the cli:
1.	Start new workout routine
The user can input a new routine. Including: name, routine name, exercises with exercise name, reps, weight and sets.
2.	Load workout from file
Get previously saved data from a .csv file.
3.	Display workout routine on screen
Displays the workout data to the terminal in tabular form.
4.	Add to work out routine
Updates more exercises to the routine 
5.	Plot weight over time
Displays a chart with a user’s progress over time
6.	Save workout routine to file
Saves the data to a .csv file.
7.	Exit
Exit the program.


I created two custom classes to make this program.  The Routine class which has a list of exercises, and an Exercise
class which contains the data for each exercise completed. The Exercise class has the name of the user, the type of
routine (such as chest, legs, or back), the date the routine (generated by the system), the exercise name, the number
of repetitions, the amount of weight lifted, the number of sets, and the total weight lifted.  I also created
several functions to implement the program, so I used a combination of functional and object-oriented programming in
order to get a better understanding of both. 

#### Testing
To test the program, I used the Python package pytest. I created three test functions. The first test that the total
weight is calculated correctly.  The second test determines if the data to plot the chart is retrieved correctly.  
And the third test is to determine if the data is read correctly from the comma separated file.

#### Conclusion
This was a challenge for me as I am new to programming.  In hindsight I would have simplified the program.
I would also add have added a graphical user interface with dropdown menus. In future versions I would refactor the
script to be easier for the user and include additional analysis and functionality.
